README.md, before:


![banner](image/README/midaz-banner.png)

<div align="center">

[![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/LerianStudio/helm?include_prereleases)](https://github.com/LerianStudio/helm/releases)
[![License: Apache-2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/LerianStudio/helm/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Lerian%20Studio-%237289da.svg?logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/DnhqKwkGv3)

</div>

### Midaz Helm Chart Versions Matrix

| Chart Version | Onboarding Version | Transaction Version        | Console Version   | Notes                      |
|---------------|--------------------|----------------------------|-------------------|----------------------------|
| `1.53.0`      | `2.0.0`            |  `2.0.0`                   | `1.22.0`          | App major version bump     |
| `1.52.0`      | `1.50.0`           |  `1.50.0`                  | `1.22.0`          | Older release              |
| `1.50.0`      | `1.50.0`           |  `1.50.0`                  | `1.22.0`          | Older release              |

📚 For more details, check out the [official documentation](https://docs.lerian.studio/docs/deploy-midaz-using-helm).

🛠️ Looking for implementation and configuration details? See the [README](charts/midaz/README.md).

Commit message:

docs(chart): add project doc

README.md, after:

# Lerian Studio Helm Charts

![banner](image/README/midaz-banner.png)



[![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/LerianStudio/helm?include_prereleases)](https://github.com/LerianStudio/helm/releases)
[![License: Apache-2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/LerianStudio/helm/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Lerian%20Studio-%237289da.svg?logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/DnhqKwkGv3)


### Midaz Helm Chart Versions Matrix

| Chart Version | Onboarding Version | Transaction Version        | Console Version   | Notes                      |
|---------------|--------------------|----------------------------|-------------------|----------------------------|
| `1.53.0`      | `2.0.0`            |  `2.0.0`                   | `1.22.0`          | App major version bump     |
| `1.52.0`      | `1.50.0`           |  `1.50.0`                  | `1.22.0`          | Older release              |
| `1.50.0`      | `1.50.0`           |  `1.50.0`                  | `1.22.0`          | Older release              |

📚 For more details, check out the [official documentation](https://docs.lerian.studio/docs/deploy-midaz-using-helm).

🛠️ Looking for implementation and configuration details? See the [README](https://charts.lerian.studio/charts/midaz).

-----------------
### Plugin Access Manager Helm Chart Versions Matrix

| Chart Version | Auth Version | Identity Version           |  Notes    |
|---------------|--------------|----------------------------|-----------|
| `1.0.0`      | `1.0.0`       |  `1.0.0`                   | Latest    |          

📚 For more details, check out the [official documentation](https://docs.lerian.studio/docs/auth-identity).

🛠️ Looking for implementation and configuration details? See the [README](https://charts.lerian.studio/charts/plugin-access-manager).
